Welcome to this WWDC session
on Collection Views.
My name is Olivier Gutknecht,
and I am an iOS engineer
in the UIKit team.
And today,
we have a great new addition to UIKit.
Sometimes,
developing applications on iOS is
really about pushing the limits
on UI design and maybe finding
new ways to visualize information.
And we think Collection View is
going to be an amazing tool for that.
What we're going to talk about today.
First, collection view.
Surprise.
And we'll see the basics
of collection view.
The view architecture,
how can you actually provide
data and interact with it.
And then,
we're going to talk about flow layout.
And flow layout is a standard layout
we ship on iOS 6 for collection view.
And you'll see how you can tune and tweak
flow layout for your application's needs.
So, what can collection view do for you?
and David Wright, Rose and Columns.
Lines of items.
Something that wasn't that
easy to do or elegant in UIKit.
We're improving that.
And actually,
we already use Collection View on iOS 6.
This brand new Clocks app on iPad.
This top view is just a
very simple collection view.
We use also Collection View in
Maps in this new info pane,
this Photos tab.
We use Collection View in
some GameKit UIs.
and I are going to show
you how to do that.
And I think it's going to be a
great tool for your applications,
too.
So, let's get started.
But first,
A small comparison.
We already have tools to manage
collection of data on our platforms.
On OS X, we have NSCollectionView.
NSCollectionView, UICollectionView,
same name.
It's not exactly the same model.
In AppKit on OS X,
NSCollectionView is really about
managing a grid of NSView controllers.
And the model we use for
UICollectionView is actually
closer to UITableView.
we have the same common principles.
But let me stress that collection
view is not a replacement for-- oh,
yeah.
UICollectionView is not
replacing UI TableView.
We have a lot of built-in
behaviors in TableViews.
That's really one of the major
building blocks we use for iOS
application on iPad and iPhone.
And we're not changing that.
We have things like headers, footers.
We have edit mode.
We have row animations.
Many of these don't really make
sense in a collection view world,
because collection view is more
abstract and generic than TableView.
What did we build Collection View?
We wanted to give you an extremely
flexible way to represent data
content in your applications.
And we wanted to do that while
keeping our usual patterns.
We use all of the place in UIKit.
So CollectionView is data source-based.
It's delegate-based.
We use cells.
And if you used TableView before,
you should be at home
with CollectionView.
And we wanted to do that and keep
high performance in CollectionView,
even with very large
datasets in your app.
Let's check a quick example.
Let's say that my data set is
actually my vacation pictures.
A few pictures, some albums,
I want to be an app for that.
And what my designer gave me is this.
Okay.
How can I build that
with Collection View?
[Transcript missing]
A cell is really a representation
for one item in your data set.
So you might have one
picture in that library,
and you want one cell to represent that.
And you, in that case,
are probably just going
to use some UIImageView,
set the image, bam, that's done.
The important thing here is
cells are really data-driven.
It's your data model that drives what is
in Collection View for the cells part.
It's based on the data source.
The second concept we use in
Collection View is actually
a new name for an old ID.
It's what we call supplementary views.
And what are supplementary views?
Well, it's when you want to
add some views here,
these two album titles,
that are really metadata about a section.
It could be an album title.
It could be the album
index somewhere else.
It could be a block of text,
the story of that album.
The important thing is it
applies to an entire section.
And like cells, it's data-driven.
And the reason why we don't
call that eaters or footers,
because that's really the same concept
that we used before in TableView,
it's, well, CollectionView is not
exactly table-based,
right?
So is that small thing a footer?
Yeah, maybe.
But, again, it's more generic than that.
So we decided on supplementary views
to describe these additional things.
The third concept we
use in Collection Views,
and that's new,
is what we call decoration views.
And...
Decoration views is not like
cells and supplementary views.
It's not something that is
going to be data-driven.
It's going to be in the
visual side of the world.
So it's more about the layout of
the collection view when you want to
add some embellishment to some part.
And here,
it's basically two kinds of views.
We have this top part and the shelf
element that we repeat three times.
And decoration views are
really useful to have,
for instance,
A background scrolling with your content,
which again was something that wasn't
that easy to do before in TableViews.
And with these three elements,
I can actually implement that design.
So,
so View Architecture in Collection View.
Sales,
Supplementary Views on the data side,
Decoration View on the
visual/layout side.
How do you provide content
to a collection view?
Well, we have this Objective-C protocol
called UICollectionViewDataSource.
That is something that one of your class
in your application must implement.
And when we're about to
display things on screen,
we need to call that data source
a few methods so we can know
how many sections do we have,
how many items in a given section,
and how should we actually
configure our cells or headers.
Oh, well, supplementary views in
the more generic sense.
So let's see how that works.
The first thing is we call from
the collection view one method
on your data source number of
sections in collection view.
Actually,
You don't have to implement that one.
If you don't, we just assume that we
have just one section.
How many sections?
Two.
Next step.
We're going to ask for each section
How many items do you have in
your data source for that section?
Well, section 0, 4 items.
Section 1, 5 items.
And then, when we're ready to
display things on screen,
we're going to call on your data source,
and you must implement that one
if you want to display something.
Collection view,
cell for item at index pass.
And then you should actually fetch what
you need in your data set and configure
the cell we're going to give you.
It's important to note that in this case,
we will only ask you about these
cells for what is actually on screen.
: We don't want to allocate cells for
every single item in your data set.
That would be quite a bad idea
on a memory-limited device.
We have another trick for performance.
Again, it's a technique we used before.
It's cell and view reuse.
What does that mean?
In this case,
when we scroll a collection view,
that might cause a few cells
or views to go off-screen,
right?
And in that case,
we don't want to deallocate these cells.
We're just going to move
these into a reuse queue.
When the user is about to scroll again,
we need new serves.
So we are just going to grab
what we have in the reuse queue.
Prepare that by asking you
with your data source method,
and then we can actually screw it up.
So with that,
we minimize the number of allocation
and deallocation we need to do.
That works quite well for large datasets.
But...
We actually improved that.
We were using that technique
in TableView before.
And we tweaked that.
How?
When you set up a collection view,
and that's usually in this viewDidLoad
method in your UI view controller,
we ask you to register the class
you're going to use for a cell,
for a reuse identifier.
That is, the kind of data,
the kind of cell you want.
And after that, in the dataSource method,
We're going to call you
with CollectionView,
the index pass we want to display.
And what you will need to do is to
actually call on the CollectionView the
QReusableCell with reuse identifier.
And then you can actually configure
that cell by setting the image,
returning the cell.
What if we don't have any
cell available in ReaSQ?
Before, you had to check for that.
Not anymore.
Why?
Because you did help us.
by registering that class.
So we know the class for that cell.
So even if we don't have a cell
available in the reuse queue,
we can instantiate that for you.
So that code just goes away.
And we like that so much,
we added the same
technique to UITableView.
So, let's summarize.
We always instantiate a cell
or supplementary view for you.
You just need to register the
class for that cell or that
supplemental review of kind,
header, footer, anything.
You can also set up that
cell in Interface Builder
and just register as an IP,
something we had before in TableViews.
And then, in DataSource,
Just in the queue, we have two methods,
one for sales and one
for supplementary views.
Nice and easy.
Then, how do we interact with content?
It's time for yet another
Objective-C protocol for you,
UICollectionViewDelegate.
And that delegate will control how cells
are actually highlighted when you tap.
Selected.
And also,
we have support for these nice menu
actions when you long tap a cell.
And that's something
we actually improved,
too.
So just to be clear on the vocabulary,
That cell on the left
is an highlighted cell.
It's when I touch the screen,
but before touch up, right?
And on touch up, what happens is the
cell might be selected,
which is the case for
these three other cells.
How did we improve that?
First...
On each cell, we have two properties,
selected and highlighted.
And we defined a very precise
flow for highlighting and
selection in Collection View.
How does that work?
First step is when the
finger touches the screen,
Here we call on your delegate if
you actually implement that method.
CollectionView should
highlight item at index pass.
And that's new.
In TableView,
: You can control selection,
but even if you don't want
a cell to be selected,
you would get that highlighting feedback,
which is not that good from a
user experience point of view.
So in Collection View,
We first ask,
should we actually highlight the cell?
And if you return no to that method,
we don't highlight,
but we completely bypass
the selection process.
stops here.
If you return yes, then, well,
we switch that highlighted
property to yes,
and we call on your delegate
didHighlightItemAtIndexPass.
The next step is
: When we switch up,
should we actually select that cell?
So, again,
if you choose to implement that method,
CollectionView should
select item at index pass.
And if you return yes, okay,
we do a bunch of things.
We switch selected to true.
We switch back, highlight it to false.
And at the same time, we call
CollectionViewDidAnalyteItemAtIndexPass
and
CollectionViewDidSelectItemAtIndexPass.
So you can hook whatever you want on
the actual end of the selection process.
What's next?
Unselect.
So that's when you tap again a cell.
And in that case, we call should deselect
item at index pass.
Returning yes means
that you deny unselect.
So the cell would stay selected.
If you return yes, then...
We call didSelect, didDeselect,
item at index pass,
and we switch back the
selected property to false.
So that's a very precise
flow for selection and
highlight in Collection View.
And, of course,
you can also set up on Collection View if
you want selection or multiple
selection or no selection at all.
And we do the right thing.
Then...
Bringing actual content on screen.
We have two interesting things here.
Cells and layout.
First, cells.
There is one thing you need to know.
The collection view is not
in the content business.
It's your content.
We do not define any
style in collection view.
So you don't have, like,
table view things like,
give me that cell with one image,
one label, two labels.
No styles at all.
But...
We do help you by tracking
selection and highlight,
as we saw.
And we do actually a bit more than that.
When we call setHighlighted
or setSelected on a cell,
what we actually do is we walk the
entire view sub-tree for that cell.
And if any view here actually implements
setSelected or setHighlighted,
we're going to call that.
What does that mean?
It means that if in a collection
view cell you actually use
any standard UIKit control,
you will get selection and highlight
for free because we're going to
call that on the UIKit controls.
The next thing we do-- and you can
do that for your own custom view,
of course.
The next thing we do is
We give you two additional
properties on CELS.
You can configure a background view
and a selected background view.
And if you do that, we're going to switch
when we track selection,
background view and
selected background view.
So it's really easy to
implement these styles.
So we know what the UICollectionViewCell
view hierarchy looks like now.
We have UICollectionViewCell,
and we're probably going to supply that.
The first view is the background view,
if you did provide one such
view to CollectionViewCell.
The next view is the
selected background view,
if you did configure that.
And on top of that,
we have a content view
that we set up for you.
And you should really add your own
content to that content view and not
to the main CollectionViewCell view,
because that would mean that your
views would be behind background
or selected background view,
which wouldn't be a good idea.
Okay.
Now...
That's what we know about CollectionView.
It's actually a ScrollView subclass.
It cooperates with
UICollectionViewDelegate and
UICollectionViewDataSource,
which are in your application.
And it manages a bunch of cells.
We have something else.
UICollectionViewLayout.
And
UICollectionView actually
doesn't know anything about
how to set up cells on screen.
It cooperates with a
UICollectionViewLayout
instance to do that.
And might be just a subclass of that,
like the flow layout we ship in iOS 6.
But you can actually subclass
UICollectionViewLayout.
What does that mean?
It means that you can bring
your own layout to the party.
A layout's responsibility is to compute,
generate layout
information for each cell,
supplementary views,
or decoration views we would
have in a collection view.
And these layout attributes,
this layout information is a few
things you might want to set.
Eventually on a cell,
like position for a cell,
The actual size for each cell.
But you can also set opacity.
Even z-index,
if you have overlapping cells,
with the index you can control which cell
is going to be above or below the other.
And you can even set up a simple
transform on a cell so you can
scale a cell relative to others.
And because UICollectionViewLayout
attribute is actually a class,
you can supply that and add
other information that we're
going to give to your view,
your cell class.
Thank you.
So, what does that mean?
Well, that's a layout that
UICollectionViewFlowLayout might
generate perfectly fine layout,
two sections, two supplementary views
for header-like things,
and a bunch of cells.
But that is a perfectly fine layout.
It's just not generated by flow layout,
but we have two sections.
Two subliminal reviews, bunch of cells,
and that's something
that one of your class,
subclassing your UICollectionView layout
might actually generate.
So, now, let's talk about flow layout.
FlowLayout is an interesting class.
Something we wanted to share to give you
some basic behavior for Collection View.
And what can we do with
CollectionViewFlowLayout?
We can go from really simple things,
some things that you
asked us to do before,
[Transcript missing]
having it different sizes.
Eaters and footers with, again,
different sizes.
And CollectionViewLayout,
CollectionViewFlowLayout
make that really easy to do.
So what I want to do now is
to give you a very short demo
of CollectionViewFlowLayout.
This is an extremely simple
collection view with a flow layout.
And here, my cells are just a small
label with just one letter.
And that section is just
showing these cells.
: Working nicely.
And if we have another section,
like when I want to display Helvetica,
notice that my cells are now--
with different size.
And that's built in
UICollectionViewFlowLayout.
Another thing we built in is
when you actually rotate a
device with a flow layout,
We nicely crossfade cells if we need to.
We actually detect-- we actually
detect if it's going to look
good or not when we make cells.
If it doesn't, we crossfade.
For free.
We don't have anything to do here.
The next demo I want to
do is a small gallery app.
And I think that's something
that you also requested before.
Horizontal starting.
So it's much better than just
table view in a horizontal mode.
That's a collection view,
and here I have a custom
header on the side.
A few items in that section.
I go to another section
with different insets.
: I'm going to start
with the collection view.
And here I just customize the
internal item space between my cells.
And again,
we support rotation out of the box.
That was FlowLayout.
Well, the demo of FlowLayout.
And so FlowLayout is...
A line-oriented layout is just not grids.
You can configure that as a grid.
You don't have to.
And because that's really useful,
in FlowLayout, we do include support
for headers and footers.
And to talk about FlowLayout,
I'd like to introduce
you to Luke Hiesterman.
Thank you, Olivier.
So as Olivier said,
you can bring all kinds of arbitrary
layouts to Collection View,
but we've built in a tremendous
layout that we think is really
awesome that we're shipping with iOS
6 that you guys can use to produce
some really great UIs already today.
So I'm going to talk to you
about UICollectionViewFlowLayout,
which is our built-in layout,
which you just saw on
screen in Olivier's demo,
and all of the different bells and
whistles we have for you to tweak
within that layout to be able to do
interesting things right out of the box.
So to start off,
let's define what flow layout means.
Maybe this is a sort of
interesting term for some of us.
Well, we think of it as really
a line-oriented layout.
We said right up front you're
going to be able to do grids,
and absolutely.
Grids are the degenerate case
of a line-oriented layout.
If every item is the same size,
we end up laying them out in
something that looks like a grid.
But this could be a grouping of lines
of things that are not of like size.
If you have different sizes,
we will lay them out sort of on a line
until we hit the end of the screen.
We break to another line,
and we start laying things out again.
It's sort of like a text
system in that sense.
And we include support
for headers and footers,
which you've seen.
So we have a bunch of ways
to customize the flow layout,
and these include
everything you see here.
You can change the item size, number one.
You can change the
spacing between the lines.
spacing between the cells.
You can change the scroll direction.
So, you know,
we're all familiar with horizontal
or rather vertical scrolling
that we've done in TableView.
And one of the big requests
people have had is,
hey, I want something like a
TableView to scroll horizontally.
Well, we haven't given you a
horizontally scrolling TableView.
We've given you something better.
We've given you something that can
scroll horizontally and display
content in whatever way makes sense.
The little painting demo
that Olivier showed you,
acted similarly to what a horizontal
table view would be in the sense that
we only had one cell per row there,
per column, but we accomplished that by
using insets around the section,
which is one of the other bells and
whistles that we'll talk about here.
And you can also specify the
sizes that you want to use
for your headers and footers.
So this is all within the
built-in flow layout that
we're talking about right now.
So the item size for any particular
thing can be configured globally based
on a property on the actual flow layout.
And you can just say, "Hey,
I want to make my item size
100 by 100," or whatever it is.
[Transcript missing]
We also provide line spacing.
This is different from the inter-item
spacing in that if you have,
say, a vertically scrolling grid,
then the space between the items
is that horizontal space that we
just saw on the previous slide.
But line spacing,
also provided as a minimum,
gives us the ability to provide
the definition of how much space
is between the individual lines.
And that's pretty straightforward
as to what that means if all your
items are of the same height in
a vertically scrolling layout.
But if you have something
that looks like this,
then maybe it's a little less
obvious right out of the box
what that actually means.
Well, since it's a minimum, what we mean,
what we guarantee is the distance
from the bottom of the furthest
down item is-- and to the top of the
furthest up item on the following line,
that is at least the minimum
value that you have specified.
So that's what minimum
line spacing gets you.
So spacing is something,
both of these properties
can be configured globally.
We have properties
directly on the layout.
You can say my minimum
spacing for the line,
my minimum spacing for
the item is this much,
and you're done.
For a lot of us,
this is going to be the way to go.
We set it up when we
configure the layout,
and we're done.
But just like with item sizing,
we have delegate methods so that
we can specify this dynamically.
Some sections may have different
spacing between their items and between
their lines than other sections.
You saw this work in
Olivier's demo before,
where different sections had
different spaces between the items.
So between these three properties
that you've talked about
or that we've talked about,
you may have started to
pick up a pattern that we're
introducing here in FlowLayout,
which is everything can be
configured globally if you want to
use that thing for your FlowLayout
everywhere and set it up up front,
or we can do it on a per-delegate basis.
This is true basically for all
properties on the FlowLayout.
And the thing that makes this
convenient for you is the delegate
that the FlowLayout uses is actually
the delegate of the CollectionView.
So that same delegate that gets the
item did select and should highlight
all of those highlight selection calls,
that same delegate is going to
get calls from the FlowLayout
asking for things like,
things like item sizing and such.
So to accomplish that,
the flow layout actually defines
an additional protocol which
extends UICollectionViewDelegate--
and we call that
UICollectionViewDelegate-- flow layout
[Transcript missing]
You're specifying a width and a height,
but we're only going to actually
use one of those dimensions.
And which dimension we use
depends on the scroll direction.
So this is a header that we're
going to put into a vertically
scrolling collection view using
UICollectionViewFlowLayout.
And you specify some height
for that collection view.
You actually give us a size,
because we're going to ask
size for header and section.
But the dimension that we
care about is the height.
and we're going to take that height
and stretch the view out to fit
the bounds of the collection view.
So...
and I will be working
on the collection view.
We will stretch the height of
that header view to fit the
collection view bounds that way.
So the dimension that we care
about depends on the dimension
that you're scrolling in.
Just as we change the dimension
on which we lay out lines,
we change the dimension in which we
stretch your headers and footers.
So to summarize what we have
done with headers and footers,
these are defined as supplementary
views in the CollectionViewSpeak.
The flow layout actually defines
two types of supplementary
views that are used,
section header and section footer,
namely.
And you'll notice that we've
actually kept the term flow
layout out of those definitions.
And that's because if you
go write your own layout,
you may find that your layout
works in section headers
and section footers as well.
And you can just reuse these
supplementary types in your own layout.
So in order to get them on screen,
it's really just the same dance that
you're used to doing with cells.
You'll register a class or a nib,
and then when in your data source
you'll implement the appropriate method,
we will ask you for a view
for the appropriate kind,
and you can dequeue a view
of the type that you have
registered and return it to us.
It's really the same thing
that you've done with cells,
so that should be pretty
simple code for you to write.
Let's talk about section insets.
This is another little tweak
that you can do on your content.
And so if you imagine having a bunch
of content that looks like this,
you got it laid out, it's sort of within,
it's got a header on top and a footer on
bottom and a bunch of stuff in between,
section insets is a property on that
content that allows you to specify
a box surrounding the content,
and then the insets, top, bottom, left,
and right, allow you to shrink that box.
So that bounding box can change your
section header and footer stay put,
but your content gets laid
out in a smaller area.
And that's what section
inset will do for you.
We used that in Olivier's demo before
in order to ensure that we only had one
column for each of the artistic drawings,
and that got us a nice little line,
horizontally scrolling line layout.
So those also can be configured
globally or via the delegate.
Very simple.
It will be a pattern
that you'll be used to.
When you walk out of here,
I want you to think about the
Flow Layout as your new best friend.
The Flow Layout is the thing that you
want to go home and play with tonight
when you roll out Collection View and
you want to see what it's capable of,
what kind of powers that it can bring
into your life for creating new,
beautiful UI.
It's really, really powerful.
We have a lot of little bells and
whistles that you can tweak in there to
produce really great new user interfaces
that maybe would have taken a lot,
a lot of code to write in iOS 5,
but in iOS 6, you'll find yourself
building them in an evening.
So we have a lot of built-in
behaviors that let you do that.
The amount of time that you'll save,
just, you're going to go buy
yourself some ice cream.
You'll be so happy about it.
Yeah.
And all of this that we've shown
is almost the tip of the iceberg.
We've designed Collection View so that
layouts themselves are subclassable.
And this includes
UICollectionViewFlowLayout.
By subclassing the flow out,
you can provide all kinds of
little tweaks specific to whatever
your imagination has come up with.
So this is going to be a really
fantastic starting point for all
of you to make applications that
are going to just blow us all away
and even I can't dream of today.
So with that,
I'd like to invite Olivier back
on stage to show us a beautiful
demo of the capabilities of
Collection View and wrap -- put this
whole thing back together for us.
Doctor?
First, a quick recap.
So what do we know about Collection View?
It's a data-driven view,
data source-based.
We do selection and
ROI tracking built-in for you,
and we help you build your
cells to support that.
It's based on cell decoration views,
elementary views,
and collection view actually
doesn't know anything about layout.
That's the job of the layout class.
We have more in Collection View.
We have fine-grained,
block-based updates when
you change your data source.
We have a very fine and
precise flow of the layout,
and the Collection View is going to
manage insertion and deletion of items.
We have some built-in hooks
for animation and relay out.
And you saw the one with this
rotation crossfade with FlowLayout.
CollectionView is actually
a ScrollView subclass,
but it's quite well integrated.
The layout can know that we're
scrolling and compute some
final position for a cell,
for instance.
and I are going to show you how
to do that with some layouts.
That's quite a big deal
in Collection View.
But I don't want to talk about that.
Let me show you.
What we want to do now is to
give you a little taste of
what Collection View can do,
actually.
OK, so what do we have here?
It's a very simple flow layout.
: Every cell having the same size.
I just added a few section insets to
show you that we have different sections.
I can actually select on that.
I even added some more
keyframe animation.
And...
What happens when you actually
insert or remove items?
Well, when we insert, it's quite easy.
We just move new cells
to the right place.
And when we remove,
if we remove within a section,
what do we do?
Actually, we just animate.
We don't have anything to do.
You get that behavior for free.
I might have forgotten
something about Collection View.
For a given Collection View with
a collection
Configure with a layout.
You can call a method on
CollectionView which is
setCollectionViewLayout.
So you can switch to a new layout.
What do we do in that case?
Well, we animate.
And that is one line of code.
[Transcript missing]
That grid layout, that stacked layout,
they are quite generic layout, right?
Could apply to pictures, to CD albums,
anything.
One thing you can do if you write
your own layout could be to actually
peek into your data set and build your
layout based on some information about
the actual item you want to display.
Like, for instance, for pictures,
I don't know.
GPS coordinates.
And that's just a custom layout
with one small decoration view,
one big decoration view.
And we just animate.
When we switch layout like that,
we actually call a method on
each cells that are going to
appear in the next layout.
Why that?
You might start with a cell with
a very small size and get into the
layout where the cell size is huge
because the cell doesn't decide.
It's a layout job, right?
So in a huge cell size, well,
you could add additional information,
a label for the picture, the date,
anything else.
Or what you could do, too,
is just tweak the visual
appearance for that cell so it
matches best the new layout.
Here, I'm just changing the corner radius
when switching to that new layout.
So that's another custom layout.
quite a simple one.
And when I implemented that layout,
I needed to--
For my implementation,
I need two properties.
One is that reference point
for that cluster of cells.
And the other one is the cell distance.
: One thing I could do is to actually
add a gesture recognizer on my
collection view and just change
the distance and that reference point
on my layout is just a parameter,
right?
Just call the setter.
So let's pinch.
And move.
And I'm just changing two things.
Set distance.
Set point.
That's all.
And what happens is the layout
invalidates the collection view,
compute the new state for the cell,
set everything to the right place.
Again, it's just a few lines of code.
But what if I just call setDistance,
setReferencePoint?
What's going to happen?
Well, in that case,
we change the parameters of that layout,
so the layout is going to
jump in the next state,
which visually is maybe not what I want.
So what we can do is
use this fine-grained,
blog-based update mechanism.
So we can ask the CollectionView to
actually animate when
changing a parameter in code.
for a layout.
No ends.
So, you can do some really crazy layout.
Please talk to your designer before.
Things like circle layouts, wave layouts,
grid-back layouts-- maybe
not grid-back layouts.
And that one is actually
quite interesting.
Remember in my first layout,
the grid one, I was adding and removing
items from my data source,
and cells would just
appear and disappear,
or even animate.
What happens in that case?
Well, we try to do the right thing,
which is we're going to actually add
the cell at the right position or just
fade out a cell when we remove an item.
Everything should just
work out of the box.
One thing you can do when you
implement a custom layout,
you can define the initial position
for a cell when it's appearing.
You can define the final state
for a cell when it's disappearing.
And what is that initial and final state?
Well, again,
it's that UICollectionViewLayout
attribute that define cell position.
Cell size, cell opacity,
a simple transform,
and you can do things like that.
And that was adding a cell,
but you can get creative for deletion.
Okay, so that was quite a simple layout.
Because that transform actually,
it's a CA transform 3D.
So, what could you do with that?
Something like that.
And it's actually quite
an interesting layout,
too.
Because in that case, when I swipe,
I actually need to compute
again the cell state.
And CollectionView is just tracking that
and asking the layout at the right time.
And you might notice, too,
if I just scroll,
that the cell perfectly snapped in place.
And that was the scroll view/layout
integration I was talking about.
And, of course, selections still work.
My last layout is my final layout.
That was not a Keynote animation.
That was just a 10-lines layout.
One thing about this demo,
every single layout,
every single custom layout we add
here is about one page of code.
It's that easy to create new custom
layouts with Collection View.
Collection view is all
about your content,
your sales, your layouts.
Simple things are quite simple
because we ship flow layout for you,
and we can't wait to see what
you're going to do with that.
So, for more information,
Please check the UIKit API documentation
or mail Jake Behrens or Evangelist.
And we have this iOS 6
developer forums online.
We're going to have some sample
code posted really soon now.
So again, thank you.
Hope you enjoyed that.
Have a great week.